# WMM
Package wmm is a Go representation of the NOAA World Magnetic Model.
It calculates the various components of the Earth's magnetic field at any
location and any time within the validity period of the model.

## The WMM Model
The World Magnetic Model (WMM) is a component of the 1984 World Geodetic System (WGS84).
The WMM homepage is at https://ngdc.noaa.gov/geomag/WMM/DoDWMM.shtml.

The WMM models the magnetic field generated by the Earth's core and its change
over a 5-year horizon using a degree and order 12 spherical harmonic expansion.
It is able to calculate the X, Y, and Z components of the geomagnetic field,
its rates of change DX, DY, and DZ, and various derived components
such as the total field F, the total horizontal field H,
the Declination D, the Inclination I, and the Grid Variation (Grivation) GV.

## Usage
The most commonly used output would be the Declination D, which is the
difference between Magnetic North and True North.

	t := time.Date(2019, 8, 1, 12, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC)
	loc := NewLocationGeodetic(-12.25, 82.75, 10500*Ft)
	field, err := CalculateWMMMagneticField(loc, t) 

## Testing and Validation
The outputs produced by this program have been validated against both the
detailed example provided in section 1.5 (pp. 14-15) of the paper
https://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/geomag/WMM/data/WMM2015/WMM2015_Report.pdf
using the 2015v1 model coefficients (file WMM2015.COF);
and on the set of test values in section 1.10 (pp. 19-20) using the
2015v2 model coefficients (file WMM2015v2.COF).
All values matched the values given in the paper to within 0.1nT or
0.1nT/yr as appropriate.

### Copyright
The WMM model and associated data files are produced by the US Government and are not subject to copyright.
The software in this package is provided under the MIT license where applicable.
